README.md, before:

# dr-grunt-svg-sprites

> Grunt plugin to create SVG sprites with PNG fallbacks at needed sizes

## Getting Started
This plugin requires Grunt `~0.4.1`

If you haven't used [Grunt](http://gruntjs.com/) before, be sure to check out the [Getting Started](http://gruntjs.com/getting-started) guide, as it explains how to create a [Gruntfile](http://gruntjs.com/sample-gruntfile) as well as install and use Grunt plugins. Once you're familiar with that process, you may install this plugin with this command:

```shell
npm install dr-grunt-svg-sprites --save-dev
```

Once the plugin has been installed, it may be enabled inside your Gruntfile with this line of JavaScript:

```js
grunt.loadNpmTasks('dr-grunt-svg-sprites');
```

## The "svg-sprites" task

### Overview
In your project's Gruntfile, add a section named `svg-sprites` to the data object passed into `grunt.initConfig()`.

```js
grunt.initConfig({
	"svg-sprites": {
		options: {
			// Task-specific options go here.
		},
	},
})
```

### Options

##### options.spriteElementPath
Type: `String`

The base path of the elements to be sprited.

If set in the target options it will overwrite the global options.

If set on the uppermost options property the target name will automatically be appended to the path:

```js
	options: {
		spriteElementPath: "img",
		// more options
	},
	shapes: {
		// more options
	}
```

Will result in: `img/shapes`.

... and a file structure like:

```
	img
		|- shapes
			|- circle.svg
			|- square.svg
			|- triangle.svg
```

... you would get the resulting sprite for `shapes`.

##### options.spritePath
Type: `String`

Destination path of the generated sprite images.

##### options.cssPath
Type: `String`
Optional

Destination path of the generated stylesheet. If left blank only svg sprites and png fallbacks are generated.
			
#### options.prefix
Type: `String`
Default value: `''`
Optional

Defines a prefix for the name of the sprite stylesheet and images and also classnames.

```js
	shapes: {
		prefix: "test",
		// more options
	}
```

Would result in: `test-shapes-sprite.css`, `test-shapes-sprite.svg` and `test-shapes-large-sprite.png`.

#### options.cssPrefix
Type: `String`
Default value: `''`
Optional

Defines a prefix for the name of the sprite stylesheet (this overrides `options.prefix` if set).

```js
	shapes: {
		cssPrefix: "_test",
		// more options
	}
```

Would result in: `_test-shapes-sprite.css`.

#### options.cssSuffix
Type: `String`
Default value: `'css'`
Optional

Stylesheet filetype suffix. 

#### options.unit
Type: `Number`
Default value: `10`

Defines unit size of the grid the sprite elements snap to.

#### options.refSize
Type: `String|Number`

Defines the basic height of your source svg-elements. All other sizes will be calculated relating to this. It can either be a key from the `sizes` option (which refers to a number) or just a raw number.

![Source elements and refSize](https://raw.github.com/drdk/dr-grunt-svg-sprites/master/docs/img/docs-source-elements.png)

Notice how one source element is bigger than the `refSize`; this ok - as every element is scaled proportionally.

#### options.sizes
Type: `Object`

A hash of size labels and values (`Number`) that define the different sizes of the needed sprites.

```js
	sizes: {
		large: 39,
		small: 13
	}
```

![sizes](https://raw.github.com/drdk/dr-grunt-svg-sprites/master/docs/img/docs-sprite-sizes.png)

Only 1 SVG sprite is rendered and 1 PNG sprite per defined size.

### Usage Examples

#### Basic Options

```js
grunt.initConfig({
	"svg-sprites": {
		options: {
			spriteElementPath: "img",
			spritePath: "img/sprites",
			cssPath: "css"
		},
		shapes: {
			options: {
				sizes: {
					large: 39,
					small: 13
				},
				refSize: 26,
				unit: 13
			}
		}
	}
});
```

#### Example of a task with multiple sprites configured

```js
grunt.initConfig({
	"svg-sprites": {
		"spriteOne": {
			options: {
				spriteElementPath: "source/img/svg",
				spritePath: "source/img/svg/spriteOneSvgsInHere",
				cssPath: "source/css",
				prefix: "One",
				sizes: {
					large: 55
				},
				refSize: 26,
				unit: 13
			}
		},
		"spriteTwo": {
			options: {
				spriteElementPath: "source/img/svg",
				spritePath: "source/img/svg/spriteTwoSvgsInHere",
				cssPath: "source/css",
				prefix: "Two",
				sizes: {
					large: 65
				},
				refSize: 26,
				unit: 13
			}
		}
	}
});
```

The above example will generate two seperate image sprites for the two targets (with both a PNG and SVG sprite for each). It's important to remember that the name of the Sprite target, for example, "spriteOne" and "spriteTwo" in this example, are the folder names that the task looks for *inside* the spriteElementPath.

Also note in the above example, if the SVGs have width and height set far bigger than you would like (e.g. `width="960" height="560"`), the 'sizes' gives you control over the output PNG (SVG unimportant as it is vector). In this instance, `spriteTwo` will have a PNG sprite that is 65px tall.


If you need to compose SVG elements you can use [dr-svg-grunt-composer](https://github.com/drdk/dr-grunt-svg-composer) to preproces them before building sprites.



---

## Changelog

### 0.5.3

Features:

* `options.cssPprefix` added.

### 0.5.0

Features:

* Proper target support.

Changes:

* `options.paths` properties have become: `spriteElementPath`, `spritePath` and `cssPath`.
* `options.sprites` should now be configured as separate targets.

### 0.2.8

Bug fixes:

* Fixes creation of fallback pngs in wrong location.

### 0.2.7

Features:

* `options.prefix` will now affect classnames also.
* `options.refSize` is now no longer limited to sizes defined in `options.sizes`; it can take a raw number.  


[![Analytics](https://ga-beacon.appspot.com/UA-8318361-2/drdk/dr-grunt-svg-sprites)](https://github.com/igrigorik/ga-beacon)

Commit message:

Renamed repo and npm module. #Fixes 13

README.md, after:

# grunt-dr-svg-sprites

> Grunt plugin to create SVG sprites with PNG fallbacks at needed sizes

## Getting Started
This plugin requires Grunt `~0.4.1`

If you haven't used [Grunt](http://gruntjs.com/) before, be sure to check out the [Getting Started](http://gruntjs.com/getting-started) guide, as it explains how to create a [Gruntfile](http://gruntjs.com/sample-gruntfile) as well as install and use Grunt plugins. Once you're familiar with that process, you may install this plugin with this command:

```shell
npm install grunt-dr-svg-sprites --save-dev
```

Once the plugin has been installed, it may be enabled inside your Gruntfile with this line of JavaScript:

```js
grunt.loadNpmTasks('grunt-dr-svg-sprites');
```

## The "svg-sprites" task

### Overview
In your project's Gruntfile, add a section named `svg-sprites` to the data object passed into `grunt.initConfig()`.

```js
grunt.initConfig({
	"svg-sprites": {
		options: {
			// Task-specific options go here.
		},
	},
})
```

### Options

##### options.spriteElementPath
Type: `String`

The base path of the elements to be sprited.

If set in the target options it will overwrite the global options.

If set on the uppermost options property the target name will automatically be appended to the path:

```js
	options: {
		spriteElementPath: "img",
		// more options
	},
	shapes: {
		// more options
	}
```

Will result in: `img/shapes`.

... and a file structure like:

```
	img
		|- shapes
			|- circle.svg
			|- square.svg
			|- triangle.svg
```

... you would get the resulting sprite for `shapes`.

##### options.spritePath
Type: `String`

Destination path of the generated sprite images.

##### options.cssPath
Type: `String`
Optional

Destination path of the generated stylesheet. If left blank only svg sprites and png fallbacks are generated.
			
#### options.prefix
Type: `String`
Default value: `''`
Optional

Defines a prefix for the name of the sprite stylesheet and images and also classnames.

```js
	shapes: {
		prefix: "test",
		// more options
	}
```

Would result in: `test-shapes-sprite.css`, `test-shapes-sprite.svg` and `test-shapes-large-sprite.png`.

#### options.cssPrefix
Type: `String`
Default value: `''`
Optional

Defines a prefix for the name of the sprite stylesheet (this overrides `options.prefix` if set).

```js
	shapes: {
		cssPrefix: "_test",
		// more options
	}
```

Would result in: `_test-shapes-sprite.css`.

#### options.cssSuffix
Type: `String`
Default value: `'css'`
Optional

Stylesheet filetype suffix. 

#### options.unit
Type: `Number`
Default value: `10`

Defines unit size of the grid the sprite elements snap to.

#### options.refSize
Type: `String|Number`

Defines the basic height of your source svg-elements. All other sizes will be calculated relating to this. It can either be a key from the `sizes` option (which refers to a number) or just a raw number.

![Source elements and refSize](https://raw.github.com/drdk/grunt-dr-svg-sprites/master/docs/img/docs-source-elements.png)

Notice how one source element is bigger than the `refSize`; this ok - as every element is scaled proportionally.

#### options.sizes
Type: `Object`

A hash of size labels and values (`Number`) that define the different sizes of the needed sprites.

```js
	sizes: {
		large: 39,
		small: 13
	}
```

![sizes](https://raw.github.com/drdk/grunt-dr-svg-sprites/master/docs/img/docs-sprite-sizes.png)

Only 1 SVG sprite is rendered and 1 PNG sprite per defined size.

### Usage Examples

#### Basic Options

```js
grunt.initConfig({
	"svg-sprites": {
		options: {
			spriteElementPath: "img",
			spritePath: "img/sprites",
			cssPath: "css"
		},
		shapes: {
			options: {
				sizes: {
					large: 39,
					small: 13
				},
				refSize: 26,
				unit: 13
			}
		}
	}
});
```

#### Example of a task with multiple sprites configured

```js
grunt.initConfig({
	"svg-sprites": {
		"spriteOne": {
			options: {
				spriteElementPath: "source/img/svg",
				spritePath: "source/img/svg/spriteOneSvgsInHere",
				cssPath: "source/css",
				prefix: "One",
				sizes: {
					large: 55
				},
				refSize: 26,
				unit: 13
			}
		},
		"spriteTwo": {
			options: {
				spriteElementPath: "source/img/svg",
				spritePath: "source/img/svg/spriteTwoSvgsInHere",
				cssPath: "source/css",
				prefix: "Two",
				sizes: {
					large: 65
				},
				refSize: 26,
				unit: 13
			}
		}
	}
});
```

The above example will generate two seperate image sprites for the two targets (with both a PNG and SVG sprite for each). It's important to remember that the name of the Sprite target, for example, "spriteOne" and "spriteTwo" in this example, are the folder names that the task looks for *inside* the spriteElementPath.

Also note in the above example, if the SVGs have width and height set far bigger than you would like (e.g. `width="960" height="560"`), the 'sizes' gives you control over the output PNG (SVG unimportant as it is vector). In this instance, `spriteTwo` will have a PNG sprite that is 65px tall.


If you need to compose SVG elements you can use [dr-grunt-svg-composer](https://github.com/drdk/dr-grunt-svg-composer) to preproces them before building sprites.



---

## Changelog

### 0.5.5

**Important!** Renamed repo and npm module to `grunt-dr-svg-sprites` inlining with standard naming convention for grunt tasks. `dr-grunt-svg-sprites` is now deprecated.

### 0.5.3

Features:

* `options.cssPprefix` added.

### 0.5.0

Features:

* Proper target support.

Changes:

* `options.paths` properties have become: `spriteElementPath`, `spritePath` and `cssPath`.
* `options.sprites` should now be configured as separate targets.

### 0.2.8

Bug fixes:

* Fixes creation of fallback pngs in wrong location.

### 0.2.7

Features:

* `options.prefix` will now affect classnames also.
* `options.refSize` is now no longer limited to sizes defined in `options.sizes`; it can take a raw number.  


[![Analytics](https://ga-beacon.appspot.com/UA-8318361-2/drdk/grunt-dr-svg-sprites)](https://github.com/igrigorik/ga-beacon)
